So, here we have a little portal with a
bunch of dummies that are jumping off a
cliff and wandering around mindlessly.
If I start building a town hall for
them, then they can build up a little
house for themselves. Let's put the town
hall right there. Now, the game says we
need a little hammer for it. So, let's
inspire someone like you, sir, to to do
You're walking the wrong way. Can you
just turn around and go back and build
the town hall for everyone else? Yeah.
It's a game called Craftlings. There's a
free demo on the Steam NextFest and
reminds me a lot of Lemmings back in
like the Super Nintendo days if you
remember that game. Also, our objective
here is to defeat this giant Kraken
octopus thing. Oh, hey, our town hall
leveled up. So, we get a few different
other buildings. That's good. Also, we
have to rebuild that and make sure these
guys can actively walk over there. Oh,
and we get explosives. Very nice. Give
me those. So, we need to destroy crates
with dynamite, build a lumberjack hut,
and then upgrade the town hall to level
two. First things first, let's go ahead
and blow up some crates. Good. Collect
some money, and then take this to blow
up another crate and blow up the ground.
So, now our fellas can jump up here and
walk over this way. I think the next
idea we should do is probably build a
lumberjack house so we can start re or
getting some of these logs. We'll build
it right there. Also, I can punch
someone. Boom.
Whoops. Uh, that wasn't great, but they
get to respawn, which is kind of nice, I
guess. And you're dead. Yay. I kind of
feel bad for them. Also, that guy just
jumped into the water, which makes him
respawn again. So, let's put a stopper
over here. It's a little statue that'll
make it so people can't walk anymore.
All right, fellas. I don't really want
to kill you that much. I mean, I do, cuz
it's kind of funny. You do all that work
climbing the ladder, and I say no. Oh, I
missed. I'll get him again. Hey, that
works. Okay, cool. So, next thing we
need to do is rebuild down here. Let's
go ahead and put that down. We'll tell
this fella to turn backwards so we can
build that lumberjack hut. We inspired
him. We gave him a hammer.
I am so benevolent.
Yes, my little minion. Do my bidding.
Build that lumberjack shed. Oh, we got
money for that. Cool. Okay, so now we
build a lumberjack shed. We actually
have a little lumberjack here. I can put
that open for business. And then we'll
create one of these. Hey, our first
lumberjack has been created. All right,
fella. Start chopping some logs down.
It'll be good. And then you bring the
logs back to here. And as soon as we do
that, we can level up to level two. Turn
around. You got to go over here. Also,
are you guys surviving? You are. Hey,
look at that. There's a bundle of logs
for us. You're going to drop that off.
You're supposed to drop that. Let's turn
it on. There we go. Turn around. No, you
turn around, too. Grab the logs. That
should make them bounce back. Yep. We'll
chop down another tree.
[Music]
I like how they throw the bundle up and
then just yeet themselves off the cliff.
Okay, we're going to drop that log off.
You turn around. Good. We need one more
log to upgrade that. And ta, we have
leveled up. Ooh, a market and a mining
shed. That sounds actually pretty good
right now. We need to build that next.
We also need seven axes from here to
level this up to three. So, let's build
up a mining shed next. Um, mining shed.
kind of want to place it over here next
to the rock. We could do it over on this
side because there's a lot of over here
too. H we have a lot of dynamite. So,
should I go ahead and like mine this
area out? Overloaded with resource. I
know we've already punched people. The
other question is I can build a ladder.
So, if I mine out this area like that,
then we should have room to build up a
mining shack. Yeah. Beautiful. We also
can't make our way up there anymore
unless I buy a ladder. But now they'll
be able to move up, which is exactly
what we're looking for. Come on, build
it. Good. Now, somebody needs to
physically do this labor. You turn.
Oops.
Did I punch them or they just fall off
the cliff?
Oh, I think they're going to fall off
the cliff.
Nice. That was terrible. They suck.
Yeah. Turn around. We should probably
like put in one of these right here.
Say, you know what? Let's not climb up
to the giant cliff and jump off the edge
of it. Not a great plan. Turn around.
You got to build this. Oh, now we need
some rocks for the town hall. Okay. Oh,
good. We got five dynamite. Cool. And
collect that. What do we need here? We
need a a log and a money to craft up a
pickaxe. Also interesting, fella can't
climb when he has a resource. So, let's
do a little bit of clearing here.
Blow that up. And now they should be
able to climb up without having to do
anything else. Right. Good. We have the
pickaxe. Nice. He's going to start
mining. He's got his first rock, which
he should deliver to the town hall, but
he's not because he's dumb. So, I guess
I'll have him start dropping him off
over here. Let's build over this way.
Um, oh, someone just jumped off again,
guys. Stop it. I just blow up this. We
don't want to go up there anyway. We'll
clear the way. Um, let's use another
dynamite as soon as I can build one to
like remove one of these boxes. I also
wouldn't mind building a sapling farm up
here. Seems like a good enough spot to
build one. Hey, there we go. Something
else. Uh-huh. Tutorial important quest.
Yep. Okay, we got to build that one.
Let's get another dynamite to collect.
Guess we'll collect this box. We use
that box over here to make that up. And
now fellas should walk over. Jump up.
Oh, we could tell them to. We need two
more, don't we? Now, next Dingus is
going to start building up that sapling
farm. Nice. Sapling farm is complete.
Two more money out of that. And I think
this thing just automatically plants.
Yeah, he's watering the plant there. One
gold equals one sapling. We need one
more dynamite to build up over here.
Let's place that down. Would you stop?
I'm trying to build right now. Oh, drink
triangle picked up resource. Yeah, I
know that. Thank you, game. Let's go
ahead and do this. Then we're going to
build up a one of these. I don't want
that. I think I just wasted my money on
a sign. No, that's not a sign. What is
that? A cargo lift. Oh, so it uh raises
the resources. Interesting. I don't need
that right now, but let's disable that.
Collect my money. We need to build a
market and two houses. Guess we could do
that real quick. House. Boop. Boop. And
unoas. We'll drag the rocks over to this
thing. Good. Three of the five. Four of
the five. Ready to go. Collect the
money. Oh. Oh, why did they die? Why did
people die? Oh, look at this floating
crate with $7 in it. Very cool. Okay,
the good news is we're bringing another
rock. Oh, I'm guessing we finished the
house, which gave me two more people.
They didn't die. We literally just got
more people working here. Okay, drop off
another log. Good. You're going to mine
now, which is awesome. That's exactly
what we want. We have two more TNT. Um,
here's the question, though. I need to
get across to this Kraken. So, how do I
best do that? I'm guessing it's by
making my ladder work properly. And then
we're going to hit him with uh the siege
weapons that we get out of this. We need
five more. I think we only need one more
there. I should build a sign, though.
Let's build a sign that only a lot Oh.
Oh, they can't they can't make it past.
That's why they're all up here. They
can't jump down past this. Their heads
are too big. So, if I nuke that, yeah,
that'll work better. Hey, finally,
they're smart again. Okay, grab a
sapling. You're going to plant that in
the first piece of grass. That'll work.
The last of the rocks is being thrown up
and brought across. I guess I could mine
through that to make it a little easier.
The first sapling got planted.
We're going to have this guy pick up the
hammer. Nope, he picked up a other
thing. Turn around. Start building. We
need rocks now. Not rocks. We need
trees. Now we got 10 things. Gold coins,
blah, blah, blah. Collecting barrels.
All right.
Oh, wow. We're attacking the Kraken
already. I wasn't ready for that.
Defeat the octopus. All right. He's not
dead yet. Why is he not dead? Do we have
to build more? Oh, okay. If I Ah, I see.
I have to pay 10 money to do that. And
now that actually gets You just You're
terrible shot. Why do you suck so bad at
shooting, little bleming?
Okay, we need to get way more money for
this. And I thought the siege weapons we
need to actually walk across to it, but
it doesn't look like that. Fella is
coming back with this last house. We'll
need to build a market next. Market.
We'll build that over here, farther away
from the saplings. Another house has
been constructed. Let's remove these so
we can start gathering those trees up.
Get some more money. Two more people
popped in. Collect that. One more.
Market's going up. I'm going to pop that
back up. We don't really need to go over
here. Uh-oh. What has happened? We have
a exclamation point. Craftlings
activated a sign. Thank you. In-game
wiki. That's nice. Thank Thank you,
game. I really care about the in-game
wiki a lot. I'll tell you that. Number
one rule about YouTubers, never learn
how to read instructions. Good. Those
are working well. Okay, if we drop off
another log. I want to drop off a log
here. Can we do that? Oh, we don't have
any money. We need to get money first.
Uh-oh. We'll have to wait for a craft
barrel to stop by cuz I used all my cash
up. Hello. I'd very much like one of
those barrels right about now. Let's go
to super speed and then maybe one will
float by. Also, that looks really
pretty. I like that reflection. Hey,
there's a barrel. Got it. All right,
slow it down. Now, we need
one more rock, which shouldn't be an
issue because that fella is going to do
it. He's just going to walk way over
here to take care of that. And I'm fine
with that as long as we get a rock to
build up the marketplace.
Beautiful. Now, we need someone to build
it. That's going to be your job. They're
skipping over. You're kidding me. Gosh,
these guys are so incompetent. Turn
around, Dingus. I want you to pick that
up and then you're going to build the
market so we can Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Turn.
There it is. Yeah. He's got a case of
the smarts. Market going up. Tree has
been planted. Oh, $15 again. All right,
cool. So, now we need like rock or
trees. And if we have the trees, then we
can sell the wood logs for three.
Excellent. Got more money. That's great
for us. We'll use this again to attack
the giant octopus who's just kind of
camping right there on the boat.
Deep fry those tentacles. Hey, I think
we took him out.
Now what happens? You dead. The octopus
has been disappeared into the depths. I
literally can't read. Our path is clear
to continue our journey where we can
help the wizard. After an exhausting
battle with the octopus, the craftlings
finally reach their new land, only to
discover there are more threats in this
mystic world. Oh, wow. Okay, we have
little fellas that need to be dead. So,
we'll start like we always do by
building up one of these,
unlocking the lumberjack hut. So, we can
go ahead and place that down. We should
probably do that over here. So, if we
have a lumberjack hut, we should
probably get a sapling farm. Level up
our town hall to two, so we get a market
and a mining shed. I wouldn't mind
putting the mining shed down below.
We'll have to get one of the uh cargo
lifts here. And we could probably just
put that right there to lift up I guess
everything. And then if we have space,
it wouldn't be a bad idea to start
mining down there. Oh, cool. We got a
bunch more choppy boys here. Start
chopping. I want a mining shed down
below, fellas. I want it quickly, too.
What happens if we just lift up the wood
log? Okay, that's kind of neat. Go the
other way. You go downstairs. No, it
doesn't matter. You can go back here.
Very interesting. Okay, that's kind of
cool. The whole idea here is I basically
just want a room here. Go down here. Go
across. You can go back up. We don't
have anything for the wood right now.
But I really just want you to chop down
trees so I can put a uh mining shed down
below
like right here cuz then we can start
mining and then lifting up the stuff.
But we don't need any of that right now.
But we do need two logs to start
crafting it and a builder to start
building. I would very much like to
rework this, too. Let's grab some
barrels if I can find them. Yeah, here's
some good pile of boxes. We'll need
these for uh purposes. Ooh, look.
Fella's got bones over there. Okay, so
if I do H, we need a way up. Okay, you
got to turn around. You got to lift that
up. We need to put the three log or
three rocks in there, but nobody can get
down here. So, I need a way to get down.
I'm going to blow this up. That's not
the one I wanted to blow up. I probably
didn't need to do that either, but let's
We have 13. So, let's get rid of you and
you and you and you. Oh, those two as
well. And then we'll go boop and bloop.
Okay. And then we can do Yeah, that
works better.
All right. That's not what I wanted
either. Gosh. Load up.
Bye. We'll need another one of these.
You know what? We probably could do it
right here. That's better. All right,
they'll come over here. We're going to
make pickaxes. Lift that rock up. I
guess some of them will probably go up.
We'll need Why not put down another one
of these? That'll work. Okay, now if you
go up, we might need one of these here
to go like so. So they don't go to the
left. But they can't go. Gosh, they are
dumb, man. They're so dumb. I'll need a
sign.
We can set a filter on it. Okay, which
is the difference. What's this one do?
Area sign. I just need someone up here
to do something normal.
There we go. Okay, grab that. Dump it
off here. Thank you. Okay. Are you going
to magically turn and then Mhm. Smart.
Very smart. Cuz you're going to the left
and then you want to continue going to
the left. So, I have to be able to turn
you around once you go up.
Okay, then. So, we'll do that and then
you'll hit the wall and then hopefully
you'll go up this way. Fella, turn
around. Let's drop your thingy on the
ground.
Good. Punched him dead. Except he's not
dead. We need more rocks up here. Why
are you guys carrying your rocks? Cuz
the conveyor belt's clogged up. Okay.
Uh-huh. No, you grabbed it. Fine. No, I
don't need you to do that, though. Why
aren't you guys going up either? Get rid
of your thingy.
[Music]
Okay, you're going to go then and then
you're of course you're going back down
the stairs because that's the only thing
you know how to do.
However, the good news is we should be
okay here in a minute. Go back over. You
literally don't need to craft anything.
We're going to lock those up. I want you
to stay up top so you can grab the rock.
Bring it over.
Upgrade to level three and we can make
vegetable soup and pitchforks. Is that
uh pitchforks? Is that for attacking? It
might be soap bubbles. Interesting.
We'll build a training spot over here.
Requires three logs. Okay, I need to
figure out how to get these guys up
again. Wonder if I put one of those
here, then they'll turn, bump into it,
and then go up. No, they go back down.
So, let's delete that and this. And then
we'll put another one of these here.
So maybe they'll just turn immediately
and go up.
Good. That worked. All right. I'm going
to delete. Did I delete? I think so.
Let's delete these. They're not going to
turn and go up. But I can put down one
of these now. And I'll put down a sign.
And this sign I only want like wood
logs. So if you're carrying a wood log,
you can come down. We need to switch
that direction. Right. You can come
down. You'll drop the log off, grab a
thing, and it'll go up. Good. Good. Hey,
look at this. I'm finally figuring
things out. I'm so smart in the ways of
being smart. I need another filter. It'd
be good to have another filter for
saplings, but we're okay.
We need two logs up here. We got our
first axe. He's going to build a second
one, but we're out of money again. Oh,
that's not good. We need a market,
actually. So, with that stone and that
log, we should be able to build a market
in a second. We'll just drop down one of
these here. And fellow will pick it up
and start crafting. Good. Next thing we
need to do is the same thing over on
this way. Hey. Nope. Walk over. Collect.
And now you can build a training spot so
we can start killing some of these
monsters. Excellent. Now, I will need to
grow a couple carrots. Um, I'm not sure
where to place them. So, we'll just do
carrots there and carrots here and
carrots here. No idea. Oh, they're just
going to work at it. I'm cool with that.
Okay, we'll need a pitchfork fella to
destroy him. Can I just build a ladder
up there? I think so.
I don't know if it's going to be a 1v
one fight, but you are going to go to
the left, aren't you? And hopefully
that's not too far. We can put a
parachute on, though. Get ready. Pause.
Turn around.
Grab a pitchfork. There you go. And
attack. Oh, wizard towers. Cast spells
to support your craftlings. Ooh, okay.
Extra health point and cost 15. All
right. Give me the old stabby stab.
Uh-oh.
Okay, that's fine. Let's give you a
little blessing of mana. Excellent. I'm
going to put on a parachute on this guy
just so I can get the thing. We killed
him. Nice. Okay, here's a parachute.
That worked. Do you permanently have
parachutes?
No, he doesn't permanently have them.
Oh, six stones in there, too. Very cool.
All right, one man down. We'll need to
build more carrots
and a kitchen in order to do What is
this? Mana cauldron. Sure. Okay. Cargo
balloon to drop down. Cargo thing to go
up. All right. We'll need Yeah, that'll
work. Let's get logs up. We'll need two
logs up top. Of course, you're going to
skip it. Does that feed directly in? Oh,
it does. That's so cool. Looks like
we're harvesting the carrots as well.
Let's make sure we get the rocks this
way.
Turn around. Put the rock up into it.
One of the carrots going in. One of the
other rocks going in. Someone's going to
grab a carrot here. We're going to tell
you to bring in a log. Excellent. Turn
around. Log going up. 30 money. Oh my
goodness, those bones are expensive.
I'll put a mana cauldron up here for
carrots, I guess. Oh yeah, that just
generates more. All right, vegetable
soup into it. We'll make the vegetable
soup here.
Okay. And then we'll need to build. Why
don't we put a building hammer down?
Carrots are going to go in. Uh we can
bring the carrots up when we need to.
I think that's probably our best choice.
Did you not You turned around, didn't
you? No turning around for you. We have
another pickaxe. Awesome. That means I
can blast open these three.
And then a pickaxe here for someone to
murderize that fellow with.
No, don't go down. Ah, they're so dumb.
Okay, I'm going to have to blast this.
I don't have five more money.
No, no, no, no. You turn around. We need
more carrots.
I wish there was just a pickup button
where I could pick things up and drop
them off.
Turn around.
Okay, we're fighting again. I'm going to
try just to spam click here. Yes, that
worked. And you're going to pick up a
bone, but you can't do anything with it
cuz you can't go down a ladder with a
bone. Of course you can't.
But that'll let me sell it. How are we
doing here? Can you just kill that guy?
30 more cash. Good.
We got another pickaxe. Excellent.
Another one dead.
Um, where should I go next? Probably up
here to kill this one. There's seven on
the map. How many? I've got 11 now. H.
And that's a sword and a stone. Okay,
we're going to cut across this way. Then
put down another one in here. Punch you
to drop your thingy. You're going to go
kill the other guy. We don't want you
over here with the carrot.
I really just want someone to go build
up top. That's what I'm really wanting.
And that's exactly what we're getting.
He's building. We're fighting. This is
bad. Buff my fella up. Yeah. At a boy.
All right. We got another bone from you.
Bones. Ready.
Okay. A cauldron. Carrots going in
automatically. Beautiful.
Six stones. What are we going to use the
stones for now? I'm not exactly sure,
but let's collect these. A soap bubble.
We'll soap bubble you. Oh, I lifted you
up. That's kind of funny. Can I pop it?
I can. Cool. Generate mana in the
cauldron times 20. Sure. Give me that.
Um,
here's an idea. Let's have you drop
that. Then you're going to go pick up
the sword. I'm going to soap bubble you.
I don't have enough mana. I need more
mana. We require additional manas. Come
back here. Lookie here. We have our
first cocktail of goop. You're going to
go over here. We're going to drop that
off. That's going to start generating me
the mana I need. Beautiful. Then I think
we're going to soap bubble Dingle Puss
up here. That's his new name. You're
going to float up and hopefully if I do
this right, you're going to kill the
other fella. That's the objective here.
You're going to kill skelly number
three. No. Gosh.
Up.
Please stab it. Oh, wow. He's a night
and shining armor and he needs me.
Nice hit, Dingus. Oh, but now you
dropped your sword. Fine. I don't care
about the bone. Drop that, too. Turn
around. You must charge and defeat
skelly man number dose. Just trace
whatever number that is. Okay, let's
switch this over to rocks. Rock and
stone, brother. Okay, you're going to
grab that. We're going to march our
little selves over. Stabity stab there.
Let's give you a thingy mabob to do the
winning fight. Wow, three of those.
Okay, here. Have this. It'll be fun. I
promise.
Switch that over to bone saw. Now
there's two more skellymen up here. How
best does thou kill them? Probably by
grabbing that and then having someone up
here.
Did you go turn around?
Drop the thing off here. Good. We need
people up top. People up top here. You
drop your carrot. We don't need it.
Okay, you guys are going to go up top.
Good. You're going to grab a thing.
You're going to grab a rock. You're
going to grab a axe boy. Let's change
this to rocks quick just so I can get
some cash. Good. $6.
All right. Now, I think I'm going to
force you to turn around and go up.
Yep. You're going to be our stabby man.
I'm going to give you two of these. I'm
going to give you a bubble of soap. Oh,
balls. I don't have soap. We could make
a Is there a well? Yeah, a well. It's
super cheap. I have literally nowhere to
Okay, we can use it in here.
Give me that. We need a rock way over
here. Is anyone down here with a rock?
You are. All right. Grab this. Nope.
Turn that off. Grab the rock. Turn
around. Go build the well on the other
side of the world. And then we'll build
a mana cauldron again here and have
water buckets. We want nothing but water
buckets.
I also need to start planning out how
I'm going to successfully get people
over there. So, oh, there's another one
on that side. Why did I not see you?
Okay, break that. These two. These two.
That one. And these two. And then that
one. All right. So, we can step our way
up there. I have eight more explody
boys. We got two more of these. Let's
break these.
I mean, I could just put a ladder. That
would probably be the easiest way.
We have carrots. Good. Turn around.
Start building.
Let's do this.
Uh-oh.
Oh, I gave him dynamite. Drop the
dynamite. I didn't know you could handle
that. What are you doing with the
dynamite, Dingus? Uh-oh.
Oh, I crushed him. Poor guy. All right,
10 more mana. Good. So, they're going to
grab the water, bring it in here.
That'll be a super quick, easy way to
get lots of mana. Uh, if someone will go
up,
I can make another soap bubble. I've got
two things. Let's build a few of these
so I have a little bit more room to do
this.
No. God, you made it. No, you went back
down.
I hate that. Yeah, we're going to be
super slow. Get him. Get him. Yes. No,
he went back down the steps. Grab water.
Drop water off for mana. Rinse and
repeat. Good, good, good. Yes, that
worked. We got mana. Another one over
here. This is nice. This is a good
little workflow. Okay, we need to make
sure we're good on this, too. Another
carrot going up. That'll give us more
mana here. Not a huge thing. I don't
really care too much, but I need to Got
it. Good. All right, we need to
salt bubble him. Says I need to defeat
two more skeletons. There's two this way
and none on the other side.
Pop it down. Grab a pitchfork.
attack boy. Let's uh go ahead and buff
him up.
If you die, I swear I'm going to kill
you. Gosh, you're dumb. Let's put in
your replacement. Send up replacement.
Uh-oh. I might have missed. Um,
grab another box. Grab another box. Grab
another box. Grab another box. Grab
another box. Where's another box? I
don't have another box. Where's another
box? Oh, wait. I need another box. Okay,
we're good.
No. Okay, so bubble, we're going to drop
in another one. Hopefully this one kills
the bad guy. I'm going to give you a
manning blessing here. Come on. Come on,
little buddy. You died immediately.
You're the most incompetent of all of
the craftlings I've seen. So, let's try
this again. Ah, he's got a shield this
time. Good. All right, let's uh punch
you again. Drop that down. We'll grab
another one here. And then we're going
to sneak attack. I'm also going to buff
you.
Ready? Go. Come on. Come on. Come on.
Come on. Yes. We've defeated the
skeletons. Peasants may not be the
strongest units they can fight back
against those pesky. This fell is just
going to jump off the cliff.
Anyway, my friends, that'll do it for
today's video of Craftlings. Hopefully,
you enjoyed this one. Go play the free
demo on the Steam NextFest and keep your
stick on the ice. We'll catch you next
time.
[Music]